RFC: ACPI Service Interface Changes (#1474)
OpenDevicePartnership/patina: docs/src/rfc/text/0000-acpi-interface-improvements.md

> # RFC: `patina_acpi` service interface improvements

Reviewer: One process question, should this be an amendment to the original patina-acpi RFC instead of a new one?

the service interface. DST ACPI tables are currently supported via usage of the non-generic interfaces ACPI service
methods, as they simply take a slice of bytes that start with an ACPI table header. This puts all safety burdens on the
developer. The proposed interface changes and additional support for DSTs would be highly beneficial as it would
provide a standard interface for interacting with both static and dynamically sized ACPI tables.

Supporting DSTs will require some fundamental changes to how ACPI table data is managed (described in-depth below). The
high-level description is that we will be removing the current generic table structure in favor of `Box<[u8]>`, which
self manages the ACPI page allocation while relying on `zerocopy` to interpret the table byte prefixes as an
`AcpiTableHeader`. Due to this, it will remove a large chunk of `unsafe` blocks throughout the crate.

The final benefit is that of safety. This change removes many different areas of the code wrapped in `unsafe`, and most
importantly, stops the `get_acpi_table` method from returning a pointer directly to the actual ACPI table in memory.

> Instead, it will now copy the bytes into new memory and provide that to the user. The EDKII EFIAPI side will need to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, it will now copy the bytes into new memory and provide that to the user. The C FFI interface will need to
```
nit: Not scoped to EDK II

2. Reduce `unsafe` public interfaces via `AcpiTable` trait.
3. Reduce `unsafe` usage internal to the service via zerocopy.
4. Consolidate the two services provided by `patina_acpi`.
5. Provide updated and more usage documentation.

## Requirements

1. DSTs are supported through the ACPI service interface.
2. Documentation is updated and better usage documentation created.

## Unresolved Questions

- Do we want to specify the revision in the `AcpiTable` trait and require that revision matches in addition to
  signature?

## Alternatives

The alternative is to continue the status quo. As mentioned above, DSTs are currently supported via the non-generic
service interface, but it requires you to (1) Manually construct the `AcpiTable` struct (A wrapper around a raw
pointer), (2) Ensure you've allocated to the correct memory type yourself, and (3) Manually attempt casting a generic
table to a table of your choosing.

## Prior Art

The prior implementation generically stored each ACPI table as a pointer to a leaked union representing the ACPI
table. It would then provide direct pointer access to the caller of `get_acpi_table` both for the patina component

> and caller of the EDK II protocol. Additionally, the generic methods (such as `get_acpi_table<T>`) would directly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and caller of the UEFI spec protocol. Additionally, the generic methods (such as `get_acpi_table<T>`) would directly
```

sized tables. Broadly speaking, it provides an API for inserting, removing, and manipulating elements at the end of
a dynamically sized ACPI table with formats similar to this:

```rust
struct CustomAcpiTable {
    header: AcpiTableHeader,
    fields: CustomFields,
    elements: [CustomElement]
}
```

It should be noted that this interface allows the elements to be statically sized or dynamically sized. More details,
and the provided interface, will be discussed below.

### ACPI Table Trait Definition

The ACPI table trait (`AcpiTable`) is dual hatted. It provides safety guarantees for the service implementation, and
provides important information to the `Table` struct (as described below) to provide safe table manipulation by
consumers of `patina_acpi`.

```rust
/// A trait for types that represent valid ACPI tables.
/// 
/// This trait should not be implemented manually. Use the derive macro to implement this trait on a type representing
/// an ACPI table.
/// 
/// # Safety
/// 
/// Implementors must ensure that:
/// - The type begins with an `AcpiTableHeader` as its first field
/// 
/// # Examples
/// 
/// <Skipped for brevity here as there will be examples below>
/// ```

> pub unsafe trait AcpiTable: FromBytes + IntoBytes + KnownLayout + Unaligned + Immutable {

Reviewer: Can this really be Immutable? Presumably you would return an AcpiTable from GetTable and it would be valid for someone to modify it and republish it? Same for the fields below. Perhaps I don't know what the Immutable trait bound is guaranteeing here.

Author: The `Immutable` trait is a bit of misnomer in my personal opinion. Implementing `Immutable` here means it is free from interior mutability.

https://docs.rs/zerocopy/0.8.48/zerocopy/trait.Immutable.html

Reviewer: Gotcha, thanks.

    /// The ACPI table signature, used for validation when converting a table to the implementor type
    const SIGNATURE: u32;

    /// The single struct that contains all additional fields before the table of optional [Self::Element]s 
    type Fields: IntoBytes + Immutable = ();

    /// The element type for the variable-length array portion of DST ACPI tables
    type Element: Element + ?Sized = ();

    /// The kind of ACPI table this is (Fixed, Dst). Used to gate slice style methods to only DST ACPI tables.
    #[allow(private_bounds)]
    type Kind: TableKind = Fixed;
}

/// An element that can be used for the variable-length array portion of DST ACPI tables.
/// 
/// This trait has two roles: (1) Ensure that each element can be converted to and from bytes using `zerocopy` and

> /// (2) to differentiate between Sized and Unsized elements for indexing optimizations.

Reviewer 2: How does ZeroCopy work is element can take different forms? A good example is the [MADT](https://uefi.org/specs/ACPI/6.6/05_ACPI_Software_Programming_Model.html#multiple-apic-description-table-madt) where not only are the elements different sizes but also completely different but well-structured contents. This could be a union, but I assume zerocopy may be unhappy if the union size is greater than the bytes provided.

> pub trait Element: IntoBytes + FromBytes + Immutable + KnownLayout + Unaligned {

Reviewer 2: For the sake of avoiding internal panics, should these be `TryFromBytes` to allow handling malform/unexpected elements without panicking in the parser?
